If you've ever wondered why you're not
changing in the way that you want to
change, the answer is shame. Because
shame is the locks that hold the chains
[music] of bad habits in place. And in
this video, we're going to talk about
shame. We're going to talk about real
tools that help you feel the things that
you need to feel so that the shame can
just disappear and you can have the life
that [music] you want.
One of the most stressful thought
structures that you can have is a
should. There's things that you have
been trying to stop doing for a decade
and you haven't. And every single one of
them is something you tell yourself you
should do. We tell ourselves we should
do stuff. And however, we never look at
the fact that that really really seldom
works. I remember when I discovered
this, I was I was like 28 years old and
I had this moment where I was like, I'm
going to write down the honest truth
about myself whether I want to look at
it or not. And so I wrote down all these
things about my behavior that were hard
to admit. And then I just folded it up
and put it away somewhere. And six
months later, eight months later, I
found it. And when I unfolded that piece
of paper, I went through it and said,
"How much of these have changed? how
many of these have changed? And I
checked off all the ones that had
changed. And the ones that I hadn't
changed, they were all things that I was
telling myself that I should do. So that
obligation, that should, need to, have
to, it's incredibly stressful. Telling
yourself that, you can just feel your
whole body contract when you're saying
it to yourself. You can feel the stress
of it. And then it's also stressful
because it doesn't work. So you're
sitting there telling yourself you
should do something, then you don't do
it. Then you beat yourself up for not
doing it. Then you tell yourself you
should do it again. And then you don't
do it. And then you beat yourself up.
And that's an incredibly stressful
situation.
Okay. So, this exercise is going to be a
writing exercise. And what I'm going to
ask you to do is write exactly what I
tell you to write and then pause the
video. And then once you're finished
writing the list, then unpause the video
and take the next step. But don't listen
to the next step before you've done the
first step or it'll destroy the
experiment for you. Okay, here we go.
First step, I want you to take out a
piece of paper, get a pencil, or use
your phone, and I want you to write down
everything that you've been trying to
change about yourself for at least four
years. Whether that's how you eat or who
you hang out with or how nice you are or
how you want to become more embodied or
more proactive or more forthright with
your opinion. I want you to write all of
those things down. Okay? Now, press
pause and write all those things down.
And when you're done, press play again.
All right. Welcome back. So now you have
this list in front of you. You've
written down everything that you've been
wanting to have different for long time.
And now notice and check off all the
ones that you feel that sense of
obligation around what you feel have
felt a sense of shame around
that you feel like there's something
wrong with you and that you have to and
that you've got to if this doesn't
change.
And you might notice how ineffective
that feeling of shame and obligation is
if so many of the things on this paper
also are full of that shame and
obligation.
Go ahead and pause the video until
you're finished checking out the list
and then press play again.
Shame stagnates
behavior. You can think about this
society.
What what one part of the political
divides shames the other part of the
political divide for, they just keep on
doing that behavior and vice versa,
right? Shame just stagnates. The things
that we are ashamed of are the things
that we do for decades. There's this
great quote by a guy named Aia Shante
and he says shame is the locks that
keeps the chains of bad habits in place.
If you look at kids and and
you're naughty, that's they're going to
grow up naughty. You shame somebody,
it's the best way to make sure that
they're going to continue that behavior.
Shame is like a stagnation of emotion.
You shame something and you can't feel
anything all the way through. And so you
just keep on coming back to trying to
find that emotion and you're repeating
that pattern of shame over and over and
over again, which is insanely stressful.
But it's not just stressful for that
reason. It's also extremely stressful
when you think about it this way. Shame
is basically saying there's a part of
myself that's no good.
Walking around thinking I'm no good is
is like no there's no walk in the park.
No one's like, "Hey, you know what? you
know, it feel really good in my body
right now is to think I'm no good. So,
so multiple
places that you're thinking you're no
good in life, that's shame just creating
this underlying stress in your system
and it doesn't solve anything. It
doesn't actually heal
anything. How you drop the shame is a
really tricky thing because what's
happening there is that there's a whole
bunch of emotions that are being held
back by the shame. And so, uh, you can
go to emotional inquiry on our on our
website and you can find out how to
allow those emotions to move and feel
those emotions. There's also a couple
podcasts that you can go to and and
listen to. But the critical piece is to
just at least first start noticing every
place you shame yourself and see how
gentle you can be at that moment.